OFFICIAL MONOPOLY RULES
OBJECT...The object of the game is to become the wealthiest player through
buying, renting and selling property.
EQUIPMENT...The equipment consists of a board, 2 dice, tokens, 32 houses and
12 hotels. There are Chance and Community Chest cards, a Title Deed card for each
property and play money.
PREPARATION...Place the board on a table and put the Chance and Community
Chest cards face down on their allotted spaces on the board. Each player chooses
one token to represent him/her while traveling around the board.
Each player is given $1500 divided as follows: 2 each of $500’s, $100’s and $50’s;
6 $20’s; 5 each of $10’s, $5’s and $1’s. All remaining money and other equipment
go to the Bank.
BANKER...Select as Banker a player who will also make a good Auctioneer. A
Banker who plays in the game must keep his/her personal funds separate from
those of the Bank. When more than five persons play, the Banker may elect to act
only as Banker and Auctioneer.
THE BANK...Besides the Bank’s money, the Bank holds the Title Deed cards and
houses and hotels prior to purchase and use by the players.
The Bank pays salaries and bonuses. It sells and auctions properties and hands out
their proper Title Deed cards; it sells houses and hotels to the players and loans
money when required on mortgages.
The Bank collects all taxes, fines, loans and interest, and the price of all properties
which it sells and auctions.
The Bank never “goes broke.” If the Bank runs out of money, the Banker may issue
as much more as may be needed by writing on any ordinary paper.
THE PLAY...Starting with the Banker, each player in turn throws the dice. The
player with the highest total starts the play: Place your token on the corner marked
“GO,” throw the dice and move your token in the direction of the arrow the number
of spaces indicated by the dice.
After you have completed your play, the turn passes to the left. The tokens remain
on the spaces occupied and proceed from that point on the player’s next turn. Two
or more tokens may rest on the same space at the same time.
According to the space your token reaches, you may be entitled to buy real estate
or other properties — or obliged to pay rent, pay taxes, draw a Chance or
Community Chest card, “Go to Jail ® ,” etc. 
If you throw doubles, you move your token as usual, the sum of the two dice, and
are subject to any privileges or penalties pertaining to the space on which you land.
Retaining the dice, throw again and move your token as before. If you throw
doubles three times in succession, move your token immediately to the space
marked “In Jail” (see JAIL).
“GO”...Each time a player’s token lands on or passes over GO, whether by throwing
the dice or drawing a card, the Banker pays him/her a $200 salary. The $200 is
paid only once each time around the board. However, if a player passing GO on the
throw of the dice lands 2 spaces beyond it on Community Chest, or 7 spaces
beyond it on Chance, and draws the “Advance to GO” card, he/she collects $200 for
passing GO the first time and another $200 for reaching it the second time by
instructions on the card.
BUYING PROPERTY...Whenever you land on an unowned property you may buy
that property from the Bank at its printed price. You receive the Title Deed card
showing ownership; place it face up in front of you.
If you do not wish to buy the property, the Banker sells it at auction to the highest
bidder. The buyer pays the Bank the amount of the bid in cash and receives the
Title Deed card for that property. Any player, including the one who declined the
option to buy it at the printed price, may bid. Bidding may start at any price.
PAYING RENT...When you land on property owned by another player, the owner
collects rent from you in accordance with the list printed on its Title Deed card.
If the property is mortgaged, no rent can be collected. When a property is
mortgaged, its Title Deed card is placed face down in front of the owner.
It is an advantage to hold all the Title Deed cards in a color-group (e.g., Boardwalk
and Park Place; or Connecticut, Vermont and Oriental Avenues) because the owner
may then charge double rent for unimproved properties in that color-group. This
rule applies to unmortgaged properties even if another property in that color-group
is mortgaged.
It is even more advantageous to have houses or hotels on properties because rents
are much higher than for unimproved properties.
The owner may not collect the rent if he/she fails to ask for it before the second
player following throws the dice.
“CHANCE” AND “COMMUNITY CHEST”...When you land on either of these
spaces, take the top card from the deck indicated, follow the instructions and return
the card face down to the bottom of the deck.
The “Get Out of Jail Free” card is held until used and then returned to the bottom of
the deck. If the player who draws it does not wish to use it, he/she may sell it, at
any time, to another player at a price agreeable to both. 
“INCOME TAX”...If you land here you have two options: You may estimate your
tax at $200 and pay the Bank, or you may pay 10% of your total worth to the
Bank. Your total worth is all your cash on hand, printed prices of mortgaged and
unmortgaged properties and cost price of all buildings you own. You must decide
which option you will take before you add up your total worth.
“JAIL”...You land in Jail when...(1) your token lands on the space marked “Go to
Jail”; (2) you draw a card marked “Go to Jail”; or (3) you throw doubles three times
in succession.
When you are sent to Jail you cannot collect your $200 salary in that move since,
regardless of where your token is on the board, you must move it directly into Jail.
Yours turn ends when you are sent to Jail.
If you are not “sent” to Jail but in the ordinary course of play land on that space,
you are “Just Visiting,” you incur no penalty, and you move ahead in the usual
manner on your next turn.
You get out of Jail by...(1) throwing doubles on any of your next three turns; if you
succeed in doing this you immediately move forward the number of spaces shown
by your doubles throw; even though you had thrown doubles, you do not take
another turn; (2) using the “Get Out of Jail Free” card if you have it; (3) purchasing
the “Get Out of Jail Free” card from another player and playing it; (4) paying a fine
of $50 before you roll the dice on either of your next two turns. If you do not throw
doubles by your third turn, you must pay the $50 fine. You then get out of Jail and
immediately move forward the number of spaces shown by your throw.
Even though you are in Jail, you may buy and sell property, buy and sell houses
and hotels and collect rents.
“FREE PARKING”...A player landing on this place does not receive any money,
property or reward of any kind. This is just a “free” resting place.
HOUSES...When you own all the properties in a color-group you may buy houses
from the Bank and erect them on those properties.
If you buy one house, you may put it on any one of those properties. The next
house you buy must be erected on one of the unimproved properties of this or any
other complete color-group you may own.
The price you must pay the Bank for each house is shown on your Title Deed card
for the property on which you erect the house.
The owner still collects double rent from an opponent who lands on the unimproved
properties of his/her complete color-group.
Following the above rules, you may buy and erect at any time as many houses as
your judgement and financial standing will allow. But you must build evenly, i.e.,
you cannot erect more than one house on any one property of any color-group until
you have built one house on every property of that group. You may then begin on 
the second row of houses, and so on, up to a limit of four houses to a property. For
example, you cannot build three houses on one property if you have only one house
on another property of that group.
As you build evenly, you must also break down evenly if you sell houses back to the
Bank (see SELLING PROPERTY).
HOTELS...When a player has four houses on each property of a complete colorgroup, he/she may buy a hotel from the Bank and erect it on any property of the
color-group. He/she returns the four houses from that property to the Bank and
pays the price for the hotel as shown on the Title Deed card. Only one hotel may be
erected on any one property.
BUILDING SHORTAGES...When the Bank has no houses to sell, players wishing to
build must wait for some player to return or sell his/her houses to the Bank before
building. If there are a limited number of houses and hotels available and two or
more players wish to buy more than the Bank has, the houses or hotels must be
sold at auction to the highest bidder.
SELLING PROPERTY...Unimproved properties, railroads and utilities (but not
buildings) may be sold to any player as a private transaction for any amount the
owner can get; however, no property can be sold to another player if buildings are
standing on any properties of that color-group. Any buildings so located must be
sold back to the Bank before the owner can sell any property of that color-group.
Houses and hotels may be sold back to the Bank at any time for one-half the price
paid for them. All houses on one color-group must be sold one by one, evenly, in
reverse of the manner in which they were erected. All hotels on one color-group
may be sold at once, or they may be sold one house at a time (one hotel equals
five houses), evenly, in reverse of the manner in which they were erected.
MORTGAGES...Unimproved properties can be mortgaged through the Bank at any
time. Before an improved property can be mortgaged, all the buildings on all the
properties of its color-group must be sold back to the Bank at half price. The
mortgage value is printed on each Title Deed card.
No rent can be collected on mortgaged properties or utilities, but rent can be
collected on unmortgaged properties in the same group.
In order to lift the mortgage, the owner must pay the Bank the amount of the
mortgage plus 10% interest. When all the properties of a color-group are no longer
mortgaged, the owner may begin to buy back houses at full price.
The player who mortgages property retains possession of it and no other player
may secure it by lifting the mortgage from the Bank. However, the owner may sell
this mortgaged property to another player at any agreed price. If you are the new
owner, you may lift the mortgage at once if you wish by paying off the mortgage
plus 10% interest to the Bank. If the mortgage is not lifted at once, you must pay
the Bank 10% interest when you buy the property and if you lift the mortgage later
you must pay the Bank an additional 10% interest as well as the amount of the
mortgage. 
BANKRUPTCY...You are declared bankrupt if you owe more than you can pay
either to another player or to the Bank. If your debt is to another player, you must
turn over to that player all that you have of value and retire from the game. In
making this settlement, if you own houses or hotels, you must return these to the
Bank in exchange for money to the extent of one-half the amount paid for them;
this cash is given to the creditor. If you have mortgaged property you also turn this
property over to your creditor but the new owner must at once pay the Bank the
amount of interest on the loan, which is 10% of the value of the property. The new
owner who does this may then, at his/her option, pay the principal or hold the
property until some later turn, then lift the mortgage. If he/she holds property in
this way until a later turn, he/she must pay the interest again upon lifting the
mortgage.
Should you owe the Bank, instead of another player, more than you can pay
(because of taxes or penalties) even by selling off buildings and mortgaging
property, you must turn over all assets to the Bank. In this case, the Bank
immediately sells by auction all property so taken, except buildings. A bankrupt
player must immediately retire from the game. The last player left in the game
wins.
MISCELLANEOUS...Money can be loaned to a player only by the Bank and then
only by mortgaging property. No player may borrow from or lend money to another
player. 
